Chapter 19 section 4 (the Other America)


I. Urban Poor
1. in 1962 25% of Americans were living below poverty level 

White Flight 
1. in the 1950 White Americans left cities for the suburbs taking the economy, and leaving other races behind 
2. city Goverments lost tax money, and could not afford to maintain or impove schools, public transportation, and police and fire departments 

The Inner Cities
1. While Poverty grew in inner cities, many white Americans remained unaware and did not believe in poverty, as they lived in rich suburbs 
2. Michael Harrington published a book about poverty, afetr experiencing it himself 

Urban Renewal
Urban Renewal: a proposed solution to the housing prombel in inner cities 
1. Although millions of homes were being built, many African Americans, Latinos, and Native Americans could afford them 
2. The National Housing Act was passed in 1949, and promoted a decent home for every American 
3. Parking lots, shopping centers, highways, and factories, were contructed on cleared land meant for homes 

II. Mexican Americans and Native Americans 
1. Despite Poverty African Americans made great strides to civil rights 

Mexican 
Braceros: hired hands, were allowed into the U.S to harvest crops 
1. many people became American citizens in 1900's, most Mexicans became railroad workers, miners and migrant workers 
2. Braceros were sent back to mexicos when their work was finished, more than 200,000 were brought in to work
3. Many Mexican entered the country illegally to escape poverty and get a job 
4. to stop illegal immigration the U.S launched operation Wetback 
4. 350,000 Mexican Americans fought in WW2 and they retuned to discrimination and poverty 
5. 2 million Mexicans were deported 

The Longoria Incident 
1. Mexicans were shocked into organized action, when Felix Longoria was insulted 
2. Ignacio lopez founded the Unity League of California to register Mexican American voters 

Native Americasn Continue Their Struggle 
1. in 1924 all Mexicans were made into second class American citizens 
2. The Indian reorganization act mandated changes in economy, culutre, and politics 
3. in 1944 Native Americans established the National Congress of American Indians to impove their own lives 
4. during WW2 65,000 Native Americans left their reserviors to fight 

The Termination Policy 
Termination Policy: eliminated federal economic support, dicontinued the reservation system, and distributed tribal lands among individual Native Americans 
1. by 1960 the government withdrew financial support from 61 Native American camps 
2. The Bureau of Indian Affair began a voluntary relocation program to help Native Americans 
3. The Bureau relocated 35,000 Native Americans 
4. by the 1960's poverty still had not dissapeared. 
